(#10, #11) Add documentation about the synchronize process (#15)
chocolatey/.github: README.md

# Global GitHub Configuration for organization repositories

## Synchronization

### Labels

> This repository contains the configuration that all repositories underneath the Chocolatey and Chocolatey Community organization is expected to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repository contains the configuration that all repositories underneath the Chocolatey and Chocolatey Community organizations are expected to use.
```

> The configuration file is located in the `.github/labels.yml` file and contains information about the name of the label, the color, the description and any aliases that the label may be known underneath or previously used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration file is located in the `.github/labels.yml` file and contains information about the name of the label, the color, the description and any aliases that the label may also be known as or previously used.
```

> At a minimum when adding a new label the name, color and description should be added. Aliases should only be added if the label is being renamed from something else, or known to conflict with a different name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At a minimum, when adding a new label, the name, color and description must be added. Aliases should only be added if the label is being renamed from something else, or known to conflict with a different name.
```

> Removing labels should be avoided at any cost unless it is known that no other repository have an issue or PR that makes use of the label, instead if it is absolutely needed to remove the label two approaches may be used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Removing labels should be avoided at any cost unless it is known that no other repository has an issue or PR that uses the label. If it is absolutely necessary to remove a label, use one of the following:
```

> - Add a new label specifically for removed labels, and add the label you wish to remove as an alias.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a new label specifically for labels that have been removed, and add the label you wish to remove, as an alias of that new label.
```

- Or add/update the local configuration in each of the repositories that make use of the label that will be removed and copy over the existing global value into this local configuration file.

> The repositories that synchronizes labels will have their own workflow file called `label-sync.yml` located in the <.github/workflows> directory, repositories that do not contain this file is not being synchronized with the labels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The repositories that synchronize labels will have their own workflow file called `.github/workflows/label-sync.yml`. Repositories that do not contain this file are not being synchronized with the labels
```

configured in this repository.

> The synchronization will happen automatically at midnight UTC, but can also be invoked manually be navigating to <actions/workflows/label-sync.yml> and press the `Run workflow`. By default this will use the default branch of the repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The synchronization will happen automatically at 00:00 UTC, but can also be invoked manually be navigating to <actions/workflows/label-sync.yml> and press the `Run workflow`. By default this will use the default branch of the repository
```

> but can be changed if needed. If testing the workflow through a fork, remember to set a GitHub secret with the name `SYNC_TOKEN` that have the value of your personal access token, or the personal access token of a user with write permissions to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but can be changed if needed. If testing the workflow through a fork, remember to set a GitHub secret with the name `SYNC_TOKEN` that has the value of your personal access token, or the personal access token of a user with write permissions to
```

your fork.

#### How can you add the workflow to a new repository?

The label synchronization can easily be added with a bare minimum configuration by navigating to the file `.github/sync.yml` and add the repository you want to add label synchronization to the repo element list.
This will add a bare minimum workflow through a pull request to the repository. This minimum workflow is only set up to synchronize the initial global labels, without removing any existing labels in the repository.
If you need to configure the workflow to also include repository specific/local labels, please see the following pull request on how this was done in the documentation repository here: https://github.com/chocolatey/docs/pull/550/files.
You must configure at least one label if you need to use a local configuration file, otherwise the workflow will throw exceptions.

You will also need to make sure the GitHub secret `SYNC_TOKEN` is available on the repository that will be synchronizing labels, if using the default `SYNC_TOKEN` on public repositories you will need to make sure that the team called `team-sync` have write permissions to the repository.

> #### What repositories is configured with label synchronization?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### What repositories are configured with label synchronization?
```

#### Known problems with label configuration

- The GitHub Action used is not known to give the best information for bad configurations, due to this it is always best to test the synchronization in your own fork before adding/updating or removing any labels.
- Some labels are not possible to be used in the configuration without the GitHub Action workflow throwing an exception. Currently only one affected label has been identified to cause this. As such avoid adding the label called `Task` to the configuration (no matter the casing).
- Not all labels are currently specified in the global configuration. Before synchronizing to new existing repositories, make sure the labels you are interested in are already available before merging a synchronized pull request.
  Missing labels can be added in the global configuration, or in a local configuration.

### Files

This repository contains the configuration for multiple files that need to be synchronized to other repositories. The configuration itself is completely self-contained in this repository using the configuration file `.github/sync.yml` and the workflow `.github/workflows/file-sync.yml`.

> The workflow should not be needed to be updated, but adding/updating or removing files can be done through the configuration file previously mentioned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The workflow should not need to be updated, but adding/updating or removing files can be done through the configuration file previously mentioned.
```

This configuration file can look a bit complex due to the structure of it.

> The format used is the first `files` group in the configuration files is intended to contain all of the files and repositories that need to be synchronized and available in all repositories, other repositories
> that have a need for specific configuration are added later in a separate files group (one files group per repository, or per common repository).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The format used in the first `files` group in the configuration file is intended to contain all of the files and repositories that need to be synchronized and available in all repositories. Other repositories
that have a need for specific configuration are added later in a separate files group (one files group per repository, or per common repository).
```

- `  dest:` This is the relative location in the destination repository where the file should be written to, as with the source parameter this can be either a file or a folder. If using a folder in the `source` argument, also use a folder in this argument.
- `  replace:` Whether the synchronization tool should replace the existing file(s) in the destination repository (only available when the source and dest is a file).
- `  delete_orphaned:` Whether any files in the folder should also be deleted if they are no longer available in the source repository (only available when the source and dest is a folder).

#### What repositories do we synchronize files with?

At the moment only one repository have files being synchronized.

The repositories are:

- <https://github.com/chocolatey/docs>
  - Currently synchronizes the label sync workflow, but will not replace any existing workflow
  - Currently synchronizes the Apache License to the repository, will replace the license if it is changed in this repository.

#### Known problems with files configuration

> - There was plans to use a fork initially when creating pull request, this unfortunately do not work and throws an exception. As such write permissions is required by the team `team-sync` on each destination repository instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- There were plans to use a fork initially when creating a pull request, but this unfortunately does not work and throws an exception. As such write permissions are required by the team `team-sync` on each destination repository instead.
```

- Other than when synchronizing folders, it is not possible to remove files in destination repositories. This will need to be handled manually if such a scenario occurs.

> - If a folder is already synchronized to a destination folder, avoid trying to synchronize a file inside that folder to the same destination repository. This causes problems and an exception may occur, or odd pull request may be opened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a folder is already synchronized to a destination folder, avoid trying to synchronize a file inside that folder to the same destination repository. This causes problems and an exception may occur, or an odd pull request may be opened.
```
